## OpenClassrooms - Python Developer Path

**Project 9:** Develop a Web Application Using Django

**Student:** Abdoul Baki Seydou

**Date:** 13/05/2023

## Abstract
This project consists of developing for LITReview, an up-and-coming startup, a secure web app that will allow users 
to request and publish reviews of books and articles.

The app needs to created as an MVP (minimum viable product) using the Django framework. 
The focus will therefore be more on the backend, with the frontend being a clean and minimal UI matching 
the wireframes provided and allowing the users to:

  -	Sign up and log in;
  -	Create tickets requesting a review of a book/article;
  -	Create reviews in response to created tickets;
  -	Create a ticket then a review as part of one-step process;
  -	View, edit, and delete their own tickets and reviews;
  - View an ordered feed containing:
    - their own tickets, reviews, and any review in response to their own tickets; 
    - the tickets and reviews from users that they follow;
  -	Follow other users by entering their username;
  -	View who they follow and unfollow whoever they want. 

This project uses HTML, CSS, Javascript and Python languages.

## Requirement

Latest version of Python must be installed.

You can download the latest version for your system from : https://www.python.org/downloads/

## Installation

The following commands rely on the knowledge of how to use the terminal (Unix, macOS) or the command line (Windows).

**1 - Get the code**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

       ```bash
       git clone https://github.com/Afudu/P9_OpenClassroom.git
       ```

**2 - Move to the folder**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

       ```bash
       cd P9_OpenClassroom
       ```  

**3 - Create a virtual environment**

  * Unix/macOS

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv pythonenv
     ```
  * Windows

    ```bash
    py -m venv pythonenv
    ```
  
  * Note: you can create the virtual environment in another folder, 
   then move to that folder to run the command above.
  * Example: in the above command, our virtual environment created is called pythonenv. 
    You can give a different name.

**4 - Activate the virtual environment created**

  * Unix/macOS

    ```bash
    source pythonenv/bin/activate
    ```

  * Windows

    ```bash
    pythonenv\Scripts\activate
    ```

**5 - Securely upgrade pip**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

      ```bash
     pip install --upgrade pip
     ```

**6 - Install all dependencies**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
    
## Running the application

**Move to the folder**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

      ```bash
      cd LITReview
      ```

**Start the server**

  * Unix/macOS/Windows

    ```bash
    python manage.py runserver
    ```

## Testing the application
After the server has started, to access the website, navigate to the url: http://127.0.0.1:8000/

For testing the website and its functionalities as detailed in the project specification documents, 
there are three user accounts that can be used: John, Marga and Tibou.
For testing purpose, the password for each user is: Password.01

Log in with each account to test the functionality.

## PEP 8 adherence
The folder 'flake_report' in the repository contains an HTML report generated by flake8-html which displays no errors.
A new report can be generated by running the following command:

* Unix/macOS/Windows

    ```bash 
    flake8 
    ```

The file setup.cfg in the root of the repository contains the settings used to generate the report.
